.TH ILIB-CHART 1 "June 2026" "ilib @ILIB_VERSION@" "Ilib Manual"
.SH NAME
ilib-chart \- render a chart from CSV data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ilib-chart
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ datafile ]
.I outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ilib-chart
reads comma-separated data and writes a chart image to
.IR outfile
(the format is chosen from its extension). With no
.I datafile
(or with \fB-\fR) the data is read from standard input.
.PP
The first column holds the category labels \(em or, for a scatter chart, the
x values. Each remaining column is a data series; the first row is a header
naming the series (unless
.BR --no-header
is given). Blank lines and lines beginning with
.B #
are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --type " T"
Chart type: \fBline\fR (default), \fBbar\fR, \fBhbar\fR (horizontal bar),
\fBpie\fR, \fBdonut\fR, \fBarea\fR or \fBscatter\fR.
.TP
.BI --title " TEXT"
Chart title.
.TP
.BI --xlabel " TEXT"
.TQ
.BI --ylabel " TEXT"
Axis labels.
.TP
.BI --width " N"
.TQ
.BI --height " N"
Image size in pixels (default 640x400).
.TP
.B --stacked
Stack the series of a bar/hbar chart instead of grouping them.
.TP
.B --log
Use a logarithmic value axis.
.TP
.B --values
Draw each data value as a label.
.TP
.BI --background " NAME"
Background color (default white).
.TP
.B --no-header
Treat the first row as data, not series names.
.TP
.B --no-markers
Omit the point markers on line and area charts.
.TP
.B --no-grid
Omit the gridlines.
.TP
.B --no-legend
Omit the legend.
.TP
.B -h ", " --help
Show a usage summary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
A bar chart from a CSV with a header row:
.PP
.RS
.nf
printf 'month,sales\\nJan,3\\nFeb,5\\nMar,4\\n' \\
    | ilib-chart --type bar --title Sales sales.png
.fi
.RE
.PP
A two-series line chart with value labels:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ilib-chart --type line --values data.csv out.png
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ilib-convert (1),
.BR ilib-index (1)
.PP
Full API documentation: https://craigk5n.github.io/ilib/
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Knudsen <craigk5n@gmail.com>
