.TH ILIB-MOGRIFY 1 "June 2026" "ilib @ILIB_VERSION@" "Ilib Manual"
.SH NAME
ilib-mogrify \- batch-edit images in place
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ilib-mogrify
.RI [ options ]
.I file1
.RI [ file2 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ilib-mogrify
applies a pipeline of image operations to each named file and writes the
result back to the
.B same
file, overwriting it in place. Each file keeps its own format (chosen by its
extension). This is the batch counterpart of
.BR ilib-convert (1),
in the spirit of ImageMagick's
.BR mogrify (1).
.PP
Operations are applied in the order they appear on the command line, so
.B --resize 320x240 --sharpen
is not the same as
.BR "--sharpen --resize 320x240" .
.PP
With
.B --format
.IR EXT ,
each result is written to a new file named after the input but with the given
extension (and corresponding format), leaving the original files untouched.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --format " EXT"
Write new \fI<name>.EXT\fR files instead of overwriting in place.
.TP
.B --greyscale ", " --grayscale
Desaturate to grey (Rec.601 luma).
.TP
.B --negate
Invert colours.
.TP
.BI --brightness " N"
Adjust brightness (\fIN\fR in -100..100).
.TP
.BI --contrast " N"
Adjust contrast (\fIN\fR in -100..100).
.TP
.BI --gamma " F"
Gamma correction (\fIF\fR > 0).
.TP
.BI --threshold " N"
Threshold each channel to black/white at \fIN\fR (0..255).
.TP
.B --flip
Mirror vertically.
.TP
.B --flop
Mirror horizontally.
.TP
.BI --rotate " DEG"
Rotate clockwise by \fIDEG\fR degrees. Multiples of 90 are exact; other angles
are interpolated and the revealed corners are filled with the
.B --background
colour.
.TP
.BI --background " NAME"
Fill colour for non-90-degree rotations (default white).
.TP
.BI --blur " R"
Box blur with radius \fIR\fR.
.TP
.BI --gaussian-blur " SIGMA"
Gaussian blur with standard deviation \fISIGMA\fR.
.TP
.B --sharpen
Sharpen.
.TP
.B --edge
Edge detect.
.TP
.B --emboss
Emboss.
.TP
.BI --resize " WxH"
Resize to \fIW\fRx\fIH\fR using bilinear interpolation.
.TP
.BI --reduce-colors " N"
Reduce the image to at most \fIN\fR colours.
.TP
.B -h ", " --help
Show a usage summary.
.SH EXAMPLES
Make thumbnails of every PNG in place:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ilib-mogrify --resize 128x128 *.png
.fi
.RE
.PP
Convert every PNG to GIF (keeping the originals) and reduce colours:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ilib-mogrify --format gif --reduce-colors 256 *.png
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ilib-convert (1),
.BR ilib-index (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Knudsen
.RB ( https://www.k5n.us/Ilib.php )
